Alerting Docs: Monitor your high availability setup (#92063)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/set-up/configure-high-availability/_index.md

   By default, it is set to listen to all interfaces (`0.0.0.0`).
1. Set `[ha_peer_timeout]` in the `[unified_alerting]` section of the custom.ini to specify the time to wait for an instance to send a notification via the Alertmanager. The default value is 15s, but it may increase if Grafana servers are located in different geographic regions or if the network latency between them is high.

> For a demo, see this [example of alerting high availability using Memberlist and Docker Compose](https://github.com/grafana/alerting-ha-docker-examples/tree/main/memberlist).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a demo, see this [example](https://github.com/grafana/alerting-ha-docker-examples/tree/main/memberlist) of alerting high availability using Memberlist and Docker Compose.
```

| alertmanager_cluster_messages_received_size_total    | Total size of cluster messages received.                                                                       |
| alertmanager_cluster_messages_sent_total             | Total number of cluster messages sent.                                                                         |
| alertmanager_cluster_messages_sent_size_total        | Total number of cluster messages received.                                                                     |
| alertmanager_cluster_messages_publish_failures_total | Total number of messages that failed to be published.                                                          |
| alertmanager_cluster_pings_seconds                   | Histogram of latencies for ping messages.                                                                      |
| alertmanager_cluster_pings_failures_total            | Total number of failed pings.                                                                                  |
| alertmanager_peer_position                           | Position the Alertmanager instance believes it's in. The position determines a peer's behavior in the cluster. |

> You can confirm the number of Grafana instances in your alerting high availability setup by querying the `alertmanager_cluster_members` and `alertmanager_peer_position` metrics.

Reviewer 2: A comment here about what to expect from the `alertmanager_peer_position` metric I think would be helpful, something like:

> Under normal operation, the `alertmanager_peer_position` should be different for Grafana instance; the peers should be incrementally numbered starting at zero, for example, with two instances, one instance should have peer position `0` and the other should have peer position `1`.

Author: Yes! Addressed by https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/92063#pullrequestreview-2260149953

   ha_peer_timeout = 15s
   ha_reconnect_timeout = 2m
   ```

## Monitor your high availability setup

When running multiple Grafana instances, all alert rules are evaluated on every instance. This multiple evaluation of alert rules is visible in the [state history](ref:state-history) and provides a straightforward way to verify that your high availability configuration is working correctly.

> You can also confirm your high availability setup by monitoring alertmanager metrics exposed by Grafana:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also confirm your high availability setup by monitoring Alertmanager metrics exposed by Grafana.
```

| alertmanager_cluster_messages_sent_total             | Total number of cluster messages sent.                                                                         |
| alertmanager_cluster_messages_sent_size_total        | Total number of cluster messages received.                                                                     |
| alertmanager_cluster_messages_publish_failures_total | Total number of messages that failed to be published.                                                          |
| alertmanager_cluster_pings_seconds                   | Histogram of latencies for ping messages.                                                                      |
| alertmanager_cluster_pings_failures_total            | Total number of failed pings.                                                                                  |
| alertmanager_peer_position                           | Position the Alertmanager instance believes it's in. The position determines a peer's behavior in the cluster. |

You can confirm the number of Grafana instances in your alerting high availability setup by querying the `alertmanager_cluster_members` and `alertmanager_peer_position` metrics.

> But note that these alerting high availability metrics are exposed via the `/metrics` endpoint in Grafana, and are not automatically collected or displayed. If you have a Prometheus instance connected to Grafana, you can add a `scrape_config` to scrape Grafana metrics and then query these metrics in Explore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that these alerting high availability metrics are exposed via the `/metrics` endpoint in Grafana, and are not automatically collected or displayed. If you have a Prometheus instance connected to Grafana, add a `scrape_config` to scrape Grafana metrics and then query these metrics in Explore.
```

```yaml
- job_name: grafana
  honor_timestamps: true
  scrape_interval: 15s
  scrape_timeout: 10s
  metrics_path: /metrics
  scheme: http
  follow_redirects: true
  static_configs:
    - targets:
        - grafana:3000
```

> For more details about monitoring alerting metrics, refer to [Alerting meta-monitoring](ref:meta-monitoring). For a demo, see the [alerting high availability examples using Docker Compose](https://github.com/grafana/alerting-ha-docker-examples/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on monitoring alerting metrics, refer to [Alerting meta-monitoring](ref:meta-monitoring). For a demo, see [alerting high availability examples using Docker Compose](https://github.com/grafana/alerting-ha-docker-examples/).
```
